hi guys so i'm going to be starting out
today just by copying up
a couple of notes i made um one is on
society's concept network
which is an idea of wazes and the second
one is called microeconomics
of the concept network and so i'll just
show you the news yeah
and um i think what i'm going to do is
just get straight into copying these up
and allow future me with the benefit of
hindsight to sort of explain
actually what it is i'm doing uh so i'm
just going to get straight in a bit
all right guys so in my opinion today's
session didn't go very well
um i was basically just trying to riff
on was it a society as a concept network
idea
um i first came across this idea when
i was interviewing anthony tushak maybe
four months ago with zander
and the final question we asked to him
was one that
had been submitted by was and it was
about
his new idea of society as a concept
network and
i'll just play that section from the
interview to you now
and you can check out the whole
interview if you're interested i'll put
a link in the description and i'll also
include some show notes
we saved the best till last bit
it is a bit of a wacky one um great it's
about a new idea he'd been working on
he'd been discussing it with friends and
i guess i'll just quote literally what
he said
um i just spoke with friends about
converting the whole operation of
humanity
into a huge concept network people would
operate as neurons
define their needs define their
interests and define that capacity
they will organize into an efficient
network of cooperation
and knowledge exchange we need software
infrastructure to implement it
what do you think handy cool yeah
so it's a pretty interesting question as
you can imagine
and andy did a very good job of coming
up with
a bunch of associations related to uh
that
quite wacky question that was had asked
so specifically what i was interested
in exploring in this session was
thinking about
how do ideas sort of propagate between
the different nodes in the network
um how do the nodes interact
uh what governs their interaction and
there were a bunch of links
i felt i could make between
microeconomics
and this society as a concept network
idea
i sort of felt that there must be some
sort of underlying framework
uh guiding the interactions of the nodes
uh
guiding their decisions to allocate
attention
to different ideas or whether to
substitute their own ideas for other
ideas and so on
another of my goals in exploring this
question was
to see if i could justify my belief that
creative output ought to be
the goal of learning without tying it to
market economy or capitalism um and by
that i mean that it's quite easy to
justify
the need to create creative output
when you live in a market economy
because you have to create output
in order to make money and
uh satisfy your basic needs like food
shelter and so on
i wanted to explore a sort of inkling i
have
about creative output sort of being a
more fundamental
economic system independent requirement
of a learner if that makes sense
and this is related to some of the ideas
that i was talking about in my last
incremental reading commentary where i
talked about knowledge valuation
um i think that it's not sufficient to
have
pleasure as the goal of learning i think
there needs to be
a meaningful goal and
i'd like to define meaningful goal as
creating creative output and putting it
into the real world
and the reason for that is that when you
only
use pleasure as the
guide behind a learner's learning
it sort of leaves open the ability for
anyone to justify any sort of absurd
learning activity
just by saying oh well i derive pleasure
from doing that
and to make it more concrete you see a
lot of people
for example in the space repetition
community
they will cram things like trivia for
pub quizzes or just learn
every country in the world or things
like that
and if your philosophy of learning
um sort of just has pleasure as the
guide then people can
justify those sorts of uh things that
seem absurd
just simply by saying that they are
pleasurable to do
so i wanted a sort of better overarching
goal
for learning that's really the
motivation behind this i suppose
i was pretty nervous about asking this
question um
because i had no idea if i was the
interviewee in this situation i would
have had no idea how to respond to this
question
but andy actually did a very very good
job of
coming up with a bunch of associations
related to the concept network idea
society's
concept network um he mentioned for
example the collective
and networked intelligence literature
he mentioned operations research and a
bunch of other stuff
and i was really impressed by his answer
and actually if you look in the
description i put
a link to the original interview and
also a link to some show notes
um which uh contain
basically bullet points what did and
andy
respond um what would it what did andy
say in response to
the questions and also some further
reading if you're really interested
so um my understanding of the
society as a concept network is pretty
much literally based just on this
and already i can sort of tell that my
interpretation is diverging
pretty significantly from what i think
it was is
uh painting at um
i suppose that's to be expected when you
just read one sentence or a couple of
sentences
in a question and then try and uh
create something out of it but um
here's how i have started to interpret
it
um so you have a society
and in the society each
the society is arranged like a network
so each node in the network is like a
person
and there are interactions between
the nodes in the network
and i decided to make define the
interactions as
their sort of decisions to allocate a
scarce resource
that the node has so each person has
a limited amount of either time or
attention i guess you can define it how
you want
and they have to decide on the basis of
something
you know where should i direct my time
and attention
and what drives their decisions to pick
something to
direct their attention to over something
else would be
the primarily be the surrounding
framework or prevailing dogma
of this concept network or society
which itself is decided um
based on the interactions between the
nodes so
still very abstract and probably doesn't
make a lot of sense doesn't even really
make a lot of sense to me but
i will push through and continue to add
the rest of the stuff on these notes so
i've got through about half of the first
one at this point
and i'm hoping future me can
make this a little bit less
obscure and opaque we'll see
well unfortunately future me is still
kind of confused so
uh just keep going buddy
oh one other thing i'll do is i'll start
splitting these things
up into their own topics so
maybe i could have a topic for node a
topic for
um scarce resource and just
in that topic just focus on that one
thing and then maybe have
other topics that try to talk about the
different components of this idea
in relation to each other so yeah that's
what i'll do now i'll just start um
pulling everything out into its own
topic i found this is really useful in
incremental writing
you take what you're going to write and
you split it up into
its component parts and then you can
actually reuse those parts in future
articles
or you can turn them into their own
article if they grow large enough
and it's just basically a really useful
way to
write in sort of a modular way
okay so we've got a really wacky um
uh programming analogy here
that i'll write out and then try and
explain
so i think that when you are working on
something that you don't understand very
well
it is very useful to create multiple
sort of representations of the problem
using
uh domains that you're familiar with so
here i was attempting to
express the ideas that i was having
using code
and you saw me earlier using paint of
course paint is an excellent
tool tool for thought tool for
expressing poorly understood ideas
um but yeah i'm not sure
actually how useful this was in the end
okay i'm going to try and explain
actually what i'm doing now
what my idea is of the node in
the societies or contact network thing
so
each node has
a few abilities you can think of them as
all behaviors i suppose
right each node in the network can
assess the value of something created by
another node
maybe that returns like
let's just say it returns true or false
whether the thing is worth
um them investing attention into it so
imagine the node um
it sees some object created by some
other node in the society
calls assess value on that object and on
the basis of
whether it's true or false it can decide
to allocate
its its guess resource attention to that
object
and it also has one other ability which
is to publish its own output so
i sort of see the allocate attention
thing as an input process
into the node right and then the node
you know does some thinking or whatever
and it starts to create its own output
back into the society which is probably
going to be influenced by the um
you know everything it's been allocating
its attention to right
and oh yeah the final part is uh
it assesses value based on some
value function right and the value
function is substitutable so
um
i think i'll move on to the concrete
example and try to explain a little bit
more actually what i mean
this is just another example of trying
to generate
multiple representations to generate
ideas about
a problem you're trying to solve
here's my concrete example of a node
and node is called a capitalist node and
its value function is
a capitalist value function so it
assesses value and when it assesses
value it asks the question
will allocating my attention to this
object let's say
allowing me to produce more output per
unit of input
that's just like i don't know the only
it's just my basic
uh one sentence explanation of what a
capitalist value function would be i
didn't put too much thought into that
just go with it and if it does it's the
answer
to that question after doing some
calculations is yes then
it returns true else it returns false
and then it decides to allocate its
attention to
whatever object that was on the basis of
the output of that assessed value
function right
um and then i decided okay so in this uh
society's a concept network idea
um the prevailing dogma is sort of
defined
um by a large
proportion or possibly the majority of
the nodes
um accepting this value function
and exercising the assessed value
function and
making decisions consistent with it and
that creates
the prevailing dogma or just the
prevailing value function of society or
whatever okay
i'm going to move on to the
microeconomics of the
concept network which is the second note
um i don't feel like it's going that
well so far
it's not really very clear to me where
this is going at all
honestly i'm gonna push through anyway
uh see if i can turn things around make
it a little bit more concrete
if not what i'll do is i'll um
i'll actually see if once has written
anything
uh on tsum guru about this idea maybe i
can start
reorienting myself
anyway
when you're confused or stuck i think
it's important when you're using sm
not to just sit still and do nothing
there are a billion things you can do
in sm to push through
a problem or push through a part of a
problem that you're stuck on
and to start moving in another direction
sm is really like an idea generation
machine
in a lot of ways and i think i made a
real mistake by not doing
something like a subset review or just
searching doing a search and review
or even a neural review for example of
network science graph theory
i could have done microeconomics or just
anything instead i sort of
uh let everything just
stop you know
okay i'm going to take a break and try
and do some more thinking before i
actually
do any more of this writing all right
we'll be back in like 10 to 15 minutes
um all right so i'm back um one thing
i'm realizing is that
sm is very good or perhaps not even as
i'm just
writing down ideas that you think are
good uh it's good practice because
sometimes you realize that they aren't
very good
or they aren't very well understood uh
like you don't understand your own ideas
so
watching the recording back i actually
disagree with my former self
and i think the idea is perfectly
workable and
i think that i started to get tired and
confused simply just
because i let my train of thought sort
of sit still
rather than providing some sort of
stimulus and sending it in another
direction
in the form of a subset review or a
neural review so i think that was the
real problem
so guys that's going to be it for today
sorry this was so incoherent
um hopefully i can make another
follow-up video in the future where i
can explain it better
um but also hopefully it was interesting
just to see someone struggle with an
idea
rather than it just be me you know
already having pre-formulated everything
and
um understanding it perfectly
so yeah i hope you enjoyed it anyway and
i'll see you in the next video